QF-6444-Changing structure and applying best practices (#619)
opengisch/QField-docs: documentation/how-to/attributes-form.en.md

---
title: Simple attribute form configuration
tx_slug: documentation_how-to_attributes-form
---

# Attribute form

Before you go into the field, you will have to configure your forms - the fields that the user will see in the fields.
You can create the forms in your QGIS project.
It works the same way as it does for a regular QGIS project, but with a few differences.

## Attribute Form Configuration

> To configure a form you have to find the vector layer's *Properties* > *Attribute form*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a form you have to open the vector layer's *Properties* > *Attribute form* in QGIS.
```

The general QGIS field widgets are supported on QField.
Below is an overview what widget types are available and supported.

| Widget type        | Support          | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|--------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Text Edit          | :material-check: | - HTML is not supported <br> - Numeric input is enforced based on the field type.                                                                                                                          |
| Check Box          | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | Value Map    (dropdown or radio button)      | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: FYI, the toggle button mode is unique to QField, it is not in QGIS itself.

Also, as of the next major version of QField, we support the color editor widget :partying_face:

| Attachment         | :material-check: | This field is combined with camera integration. <br> It is also able to open other files like pdf and doc (if you have an appropriate viewer) [Attachment (photo settings)](#configurable-attachment-path) |
| Date Time          | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Range              | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Relation Reference | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

> | Relation Widget    | :material-check: |                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: There we could also add a footnote below the table to say we support the ordered relation widget (available in QGIS via a plugin @3nids wrote over there)

!!! note
    The path needs to be set to "relative".
    The pictures, audios, videos, pdf's and documents are stored then in a sub-directory of the project, where the link stored in the text field is pointing to.

You can add a new item when clicking the camera, video, microphone or document option.
Depending on what you have selected as default, one of them will be shown inside the form.

!![Media](../assets/images/attachments-qfield-media.png,300px)

On Synchronisation the sub-directory with the pictures, videos audios, pdf's and documents has to be copied as well.

By default when adding attachments QField automatically displays the file.
The option *hyperlink* on the attachment widget will disable that functionality and show just the path to the file hyperlink.

!![](../assets/images/hyperlink_option.png)

!!! Workflow
    **Set a specific attachment path**

    :material-monitor: Desktop preparation

    In QFieldSync you can configure the path of attachments.
    By default, pictures are saved into the "DCIM" folder, audio recordings are saved into the "audio" folder and videos are saved into "video" with a timestamp as name.

>     1. Direct to the *Properties...* > *QField* > *Attachments Settings*

Reviewer: above, the `...` was removed. Do we keep it here?
